[SHIMMERING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The discovery of Gobekli
Tepe in Anatolia in Turkey has
deemed it the oldest known
megalithic site in the world
by mainstream science.
Since it was unearthed by
Dr. Klaus Schmidt in 1996,
Gobekli Tepe's circular
temples have forever
changed the way
archaeologists look
at the beginnings
of civilization,
and in more ways than one.
In 1997 an expert on cereals,
Professor Manfred Heun
at the Norwegian
University of life sciences
started investigating
an area close
to Gobekli Tepe for
evidence that would lead him
to the first grains.
His discovery of einkorn, an
ancient, single grain wheat
took him 20 miles northwest
to the mountain of Karadag,
the same mountain
Anton Parks was
able to trace the Sumerian
version of the garden of Eden.
Heun believes this grain
was the first cereal,
and older than any other
grain known to man.
The extensive lab results
proved that the specimens
of einkorn and Emmer wheat
dated back to 10,500 years ago.
An article boasting
his work stated,
"Just as the dog
evolved from the wolf,
and pigs evolved from
boars, our cereals
have been significantly
altered by human civilization.
But what if humans were
altered by the cereals
they ate as well?"
>> The area of Turkey called
Anatolia plays a huge role
in the human story.
As far as we know, that's
where the first indications
of organized agriculture appear.
And they appear around
about 11,600 years ago.
Why these things should have
happened in Anatolia rather
than somewhere else
isn't really a question
I can absolutely
answer, except to say
that perhaps the land
was conducive to what
needed to be done there.
We're to envisage a group of
hunter-gatherers who wake up
one morning, equipped with all
the skills necessary to create
what does turn out
to be the largest
megalithic site on Earth.
Where did those skills develop?
The only thing
that archaeologists
can do to explain
this is kind of
suggest that that must have
been an especially gifted group
of hunter-gatherers.
They kind of gloss
over the fact that we
can't see any evidence
of the evolution
or development of these skills.
Their only explanation
can be that somehow
a group of
hunter-gatherers, even
though we see no evidence of
them practicing or learning
how to do this, they
must have woken up
one morning just
magically equipped
with the ability to create this
extraordinary, astronomically
aligned, gigantic,
megalithic site.
And just as by sort
of an afterthought,
they also invented
agriculture at the same time.
That, believe it or not,
is what we are being
taught about Gobekli Tepe now.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> It is interesting to point
out that not very far from
the Karadag site that I located,
we find the city of Gobekli
Tepe.
It is indeed intriguing.
And also something else
similar, in Sumerian texts
you can find an important
character, the goddess Nisaba.
She is the goddess
of agriculture,
of writing, and of wisdom.
Nisaba, the goddess
of rations and wheat.
Indeed, she can also be
called Demeter in Greek.
In general, she is considered
to be one of Enki's daughters.
>> Was there really a goddess
of wheat and of agriculture?
And if so, did this goddess
teach the hunter-gatherers
the skills of farming?
Graham points out that this
might be more evidence of what
he calls an outreach program.
>> Now, how are we
to take all of this?
And how can we put it
into some kind of context?
For me what I think
we're looking at
is more evidence that there
was a high civilization
that we have lost track of.
We have forgotten a very
important part of our story.
And fragments of that story
crop up all around the world.
What I think we're looking
at is an outreach program,
an outreach program reaching out
to the hunter-gatherers in what
we would call the
upper paleolithic,
and beginning to
teach certain of them
selected skills, giving them
the gifts of civilization.
I think what
happened in Anatolia
was that the survivors
of a lost civilization,
wiped out during the cataclysmic
episode that immediately
preceded 11,600 years ago, chose
Anatolia as one of the places
where they would settle and
attempt to rebuild or recreate
what had been lost.
>> We have evidence that there
were advanced civilization.
There was advanced
civilization or civilizations,
advanced, sophisticated
cultures that
arose before the end
of the last ice age.
So we can think in round
terms of about 10,000 BC.
There was a natural
catastrophe that
occurred at 9,700 BC, snapped
us out of the Ice Age.
And what I've determined, and
piecing the evidence together,
is that what caused it at 9,700
BC was a major solar outburst.
People can think
of solar flares,
but much larger than anything
we've ever seen or experienced
in modern times, what's known
as coronal mass ejections,
in some cases what would've
looked like huge lightning
bolts literally hit the
surface of the Earth,
melted glaciers virtually
instantaneously.
This released pressure,
set up earthquake activity,
set off volcanic activity.
And actually in the
present day, we now
know that volcanic and
Earth like activity
correlates with solar activity
even in the present day.
But when you had a massive
solar outburst like this,
it would have been order
of magnitudes larger.
>> Did these ancient people
survive a cataclysm so great
that they started to rebuild
a new society near the most
important ancient
monument at the time?
A society that required
a new kind of food.
>> The earliest evidence we
have of cultivated grain is
in southern Turkey
near the Syrian border.
Now, there were
grains before that,
but this is the
cultivation of grains,
which means there's a slightly
different kind of grain,
or something evolved or changed,
something new about the grain
that allowed it to be
planted, that allowed people
to settle and not be nomads.
So civilization is to
be dated from that one
development, that one event.
It's all about grain.
>> Is it possible that the
agricultural revolution began
near Gobekli Tepe because humans
wanted to stay near the site,
and to do so they needed to
feed the people that migrated
to this ancient spot
after a cataclysm?
Could the old ways
of gathering of wild
wheat to eat have
not been enough
for such a population
in one area?
But how then could
the cultivation
of an intense amount
of crops begin?
Billy Carson suggests
that there might
have been an intervention.
>> There was a great cataclysm
that pretty much separated
humanity.
And the pre-Adamites were
leading humanity at that time.
Most of the pre-Adamites
died in the cataclysm.
The ones who did not die were
spread out across the Earth,
and they began to
re-establish civilizations.
And to bring humanity
together so they
can teach them animal husbandry
and how to grow crops.
Not just the grains,
but a lot of corn,
a lot of the different
things that we harvest
were genetically engineered
by the non terrestrial groups.
They were brought here
from another planet
and genetically spliced
with native plants.
The reason we know this
is that when you look back
at the historical record,
looking at fossils
you don't see these genetically
engineered wheats or grasses.
You only see the wild grasses.
These crops seemed
to appear here
out of the blue on
the historical record.
And the historians have
located ancient grains
in Anatolia, Turkey.
So what are the chances
that these grains
are going to have their
birthplace in the same place
that humanity did?
>> Could the ancients have
genetically altered the grasses
of Earth?
And if so, how did that
modify the human DNA?
>> Food as it pertains to our
DNA structure can literally be
traced back to what we would
call an interaction with what
some people call the
Annunaki, with this non-human
intelligence.
Now, there was a goddess,
and she was apparently
a geneticist, when you read
these ancient Sumerian tablets.
And it's at this
time of interaction
that pretty much every cereal
grain appears on the Earth.
Before that we just had nothing.
We can't trace them
past a certain point.
And what's interesting
is it's at this stage
that ancient civilization
just explodes.
As soon as these cereal
grains begin to appear,
all of these ancient
civilizations begin to appear.
At first there was nothing.
Then all of a sudden
we have civilization
after civilization.
Add mathematics, culture.
They're building monuments.
They're performing
agricultural feats.
I believe that all of
that can be equated
to the introduction of these
cereal grains into our DNA,
because she was
actually affecting
human DNA at that
time through a number
of different experiments.
And a lot of this might be
where the Babylonian bloodlines
are originated from.
>> Could the
bloodlines, or elite,
had been created as a result
of the cultivation of wheat?
If this is true, is
it possible that this
was the first hierarchy created
within the human population
between those that
cultivate the land and those
who benefit from it?
If humans could not roam any
more for their food in the wild
as they had done as
hunter-gatherers,
then did these humans
fall into a system
that would make them dependent
on the cultivation of food
to survive?
Could evidence lead us
back to the garden of Eden?
>> We seem to trace everything
back to this garden of Eden
as the cradle of civilization.
And it appears that it is not
the cradle of civilization.
It is the cradle
of re-civilization.
A civilization prior had
fallen, and afterwards,
after a cataclysm,
they had to rebuild.
And that is where they began.
>> But the idea of the garden of
Eden essentially is a metaphor
for bringing and restoring
order to the face of the Earth.
Now, that works on one level.
On the other level,
you can also establish
a physical garden of Eden,
where you have animal husbandry.
And you had the growth
of cereal crop structures
which are now coherent.
So all of these
things are built up
into a kind of orderly
environment, which
by its nature, by people
actually interacting
with this orderly
environment, they themselves
rise from a state of barbarism
into a state of order
and perfection.
And the people that kind of
came up with this concept
appear to have been people
who are human or human like,
but somehow different.
And they often are described
as being very tall.
They certainly knew about how
to domesticate cattle and crops.
So they obviously came from
some kind of a godly caste.
But back then you have to
understand the gods were not
necessarily people.
Gods were forces of
nature, but there
were people who also personified
those forces of nature.
So they had the understanding.
They had the processes
of ancient knowledge,
which goes back thousands,
hundreds of thousands of years.
And they tried to impose
that on the actual land
to bring humanity back
into a state of order
from this terrible catastrophe.
So they understood how
nature works, the dynamics
of the systems of the universe.
So they became as gods.
And this is where
we get that sort
of overlap of thinking that
these people were themselves
gods.
They were actually godlike.
>> Could these godlike beings be
the characters in the Sumerian
text?
Is it possible that
these beings could
be the elite the ancient
text talk about that
bring cultivation
to the human race?
According to Jack Cary's
research, a battle for humanity
takes place between
these gods, and the seeds
are the only thing
that will help
the human population continue.
>> A lot of occult adepts will
tell you that at some point it
looks as though a massive
falling out had taken place
between the leadership of this
extraterrestrial intelligence.
And Enki and Enlil, and you
get into that whole family
squabble, they discovered
that the leadership
wanted to wipe out humanity,
the source of the Great Flood
in a lot of cultures.
And Enki are just
mortified, horrified
that they're going to
destroy their invention,
this beautiful creature
that they had created,
just completely wipe it out.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEAK]
>> Ninmah is considered a queen
who's going to enforce her law
on Karadag, who's going to
be in charge of the colony,
and will oversee the
whole Inunaz installation
and survival process
on the Eden mountain.
You have to know that Ninmah is
a central figure in this story.
She is a queen from the
beginning until the end.
She will remain queen,
one of Tiamat's daughters.
She is Enlil's wife at first,
but much later in the story
she gets closer to Enki.
And we realize that at
some point she married him
and that she's had
a change of heart.
She has changed clan for the
betterment of the Earth's
agriculture and life in general.
>> Before the deluge,
Ninmah made a bank of seeds
on the genome, and she had a
bank of the genome of animals.
And she gave that to Ziusudra
to put on his Sumar symbol.
So they were the first seeds.
It was like a museum.
It was all kinds of different
seeds of wheat, of grains.
And it had been housed with
boxes with the seeds very
neatly sorted out.
And it was immensely old.
It seems like after
the deluge, they
started to plant again those
seeds in the mountains,
in the Zagros mountains,
that was the first one
to be free from
the water and mud.
>> The Neolithic Revolution,
which was when humans started
domesticating
plants and animals,
and started building these
big constructions was one
of the most important turning
points in human history.
Before that, humans
were hunter-gatherers.
The only reason why you
and I are not out there
hunting mastodons right now was
because of that domestication
process that started back then.
Right around the
Gobekli Tepe area,
that changed everything for us.
Now, according to the
Mesopotamian texts,
some say, well, the gods
were really only doing it
for themselves.
They really weren't out
there to help humans.
But, of course, it had a huge
beneficial effect for us.
>> Could this beneficial fact of
domestication had been an idea
given to us by
the Sumerian gods?
And was it a benefit at all?
Could the agricultural
revolution
just be another way to
enslave the human race?
Is it possible that
a civilization based
on the cultivation
of plants in one area
enslave us to that area?
Billy Carson has some
interesting information
on this idea.
>> According to my research, the
Annunaki came from a different
barometric pressure, a
different gravitational field.
So working on this planet
was difficult for them.
So they decided to
genetically engineer
the beings that were already
here with their own genetics.
They wanted someone to
help them till the Earth.
So they genetically
engineered human beings
to basically be their gardeners.
Human beings were
genetically spliced
all over the planet
during this time period.
As a matter of fact, they
brought from their home planet
grains that they would consume.
They then spliced them
with grasses here on Earth
to create a grain that they
could have human beings then
harvest for them.
>> Andrew Collins points out
that once the humans left
the area of Gobekli Tepe, they
spread out all over the world
with the same system
of civilization.
>> After the closure
of Gobekli Tepe,
and these settlements began
to spread outwards like waves
and created what's known as
the Neolithic Revolution,
taking with them new
ideas in agriculture,
animal domestication,
metallurgy,
the production of alcohol in
the form of wine and beer,
then tool technologies.
These ideas gradually move
southwards, as well as
westwards, eastwards, and
blooming northwards as well,
and end up going through the
area of the Levant, which today
is the countries of
Palestine and Israel,
and reach Egypt as early
as 8,000, 8,500 BC.
And that here, within sight
of the Great Pyramids,
or where it would later be
built, a settlement arose.
And that amongst these
were highly sophisticated
stone tool technologies
which are found identical
at Gobleki Tepe.
>> In Gobekli Tepe and the
surrounding regions we find
the sudden emergence of what
can only be called civilization.
If the Sumerian gods, or elite
did recreate a new human race
that depended on
agriculture, where
can we see evidence of this
same process around us today?
Biotech corporations today are
genetically altering seeds.
It involves altering the genetic
makeup of a crop in some way,
typically for the
purpose of making
that crop perform better.
DNA is extracted from animals,
viruses, bacteria, insects,
and even humans,
and then inserted
into the DNA of the crop.
This is referred to as GMOs.
It has been stated
that GMOs will
help solve world hunger
by providing crops that
can grow in harsh climates.
However, some
scientists have been
able to link these GMO seeds
to obesity, diabetes, asthma,
fertility problems, food
allergies, and even cancer.
All of these conditions
change our DNA.
Are we becoming an even
different form of human today
with these new foods?
>> If we look at the
mystery in the vacuum,
all we can do is speculate, but
when we look within the broader
context we already know that
human DNA was fused in a way
that cannot be explained
through evolution.
It happened 200,000 years
ago, precisely the time
that the Sumerian
traditions tell us
that the kingship from the
heavens arrived on Earth.
Now, as a scientist I can't say
that one is because of another,
but what I can say as a
scientist is that there's
a very high correlation
between the time
that the records show
that something very unique
happened in the
Tigris, Euphrates,
in Turkey, in this
part of the world,
and the physical evidence that
we're seeing right now in terms
of technology.
Anatolia in Turkey,
for example, is
a region where the DNA
studies of the grain that
has been uncovered
now are showing us
it's the first place
that modern cereals,
that we take for
granted today, appeared
from native grasses that had
been grown there in the past.
And the question is,
why did this happen?
Is this a spontaneous
emergence of the cereals?
Or as we're doing today,
were those grasses somehow
genetically modified?
As strange as it
sounds to some people,
the idea that we may
have had the ability
to genetically engineer not
only our bodies with our food
in the past--
maybe the other way
around, not only our food,
but our bodies in
the past, I think
is gaining credibility
among scientists
who are willing to honestly
look at the evidence that's
being presented.
>> Sean Stone suggests that
the DNA these ancient grains
originated from may have, in
fact, come from another world.
>> Panspermia is essentially
the notion of bacteria and other
living organisms spreading
to other planets from comets
and other space
debris essentially.
We know for a fact
that panspermia exists.
And so the idea of if bacteria
and other living organisms can
make it to Earth from
other planets, then
certainly grains and other foods
could have been brought here.
Panspermia concept
is a random act.
This is potentially
a deliberate one.
But we know, given our history,
that since we are altering
the genetic makeup of
foods, we're obviously
starting to play
God by tampering
with the entire genomic
structure of not only plants,
but actually humans.
Then certainly it's feasible
that some type of alien beings
did essentially alter grains
in order for human civilization
to begin.
>> Not only were their genetic
differences from another planet
in the grasses, but the actual
consuming of these cereals
caused human beings to begin
to change environmentally.
Our teeth began to change.
Our bone structures
began to change.
And it was because we
were able to get nutrition
on a regular basis
instead of being foragers.
>> As far as the issue of
tampering with genetics,
and not only in foods,
but also in humans,
we're actually seeing
something very interesting now,
the idea of actually
creating DNA vaccines.
Scientists are already
coming up with a plan
to use things like Zika
as a basis for putting
human DNA into a
vaccine and then
injecting people with that DNA.
So the DNA would essentially
give orders and instructions
to your body to
combat the Zika virus.
But the problem is it creates
all types of consequences that
have not really been
discussed or debated properly,
which is to say if the DNA
is absorbed into your system,
how will it alter your
entire DNA structure?
How will it pass on to
your future generations?
So these are the really
interesting questions
that are being raised
now, because we've
become more and more
familiar with nature
of the genomic
structure of humans
and the possibility of
tailoring future generations
to the will of science.
But we don't necessarily
understand all the consequence
of what that will entail,
because it doesn't just
end with you.
It ends with your children,
and their children,
and their children's children.
>> Perhaps these issues
bring up another concept,
which is if our DNA is being
altered by the food we eat,
and this can be traced back
to an ancient agricultural
revolution that created
elite versus the worker,
could this mean that our
societal structure is based
on enslavement to cultivation?
Is it possible our
ancient ancestors
became a different kind
of human once we agreed
to be part of this system?
Could this explain the
ancient struggle for power
over the masses by Sumerian
gods such as Enki and Enlil?
And where might we
find more evidence
of these alternative
forces all over the globe?
>> I think in the past female
cultures have been given a bad
press.
We know about kingship.
We know about great
battles fought by men.
And we know that
whole civilizations
seemed to be focused around
patriarchal societies.
But clearly that was not the
case in prehistoric times.
It would seem as if the female
had a much stronger role
in society.
>> Up next, the mysterious
disappearing woman within
civilizations.
Is this the link to
a much older culture
that resided here on Earth?